The last operators will overload in this section or the stream insertion and extraction operators This
will allow us to insert and extract our midstream objects to and from streams exactly as we've been
doing with all of the other builtin types.
You can see in this slide what the code would look like if we could simply insert our own user defined
objects into an output stream.
This makes our classes feel and behave more like a built in C++ Type Of course we could also overload
the stream extraction operator so that we can read data from a stream and assign them to our own objects.
Here you could see that we're reading data into Larry and hero in this example and the one of the previous
slide we're using see out and see in what we can use other streams as well as well as redirect CNN's
out to files and so forth.
Before we start let's see why it really doesn't make sense to implement the insertion and extraction
operators as member methods.
Remember when we overload an operator as a member method the left hand side object must be an object
of the class we're overloading.
This means that we would have to write Larry on the left hand side of the output statement.
While this will work it will be very strange for C++ programmers to use in this manner since it's not
the way we use these operators with other values.
The same is true for the extraction operator.
So we're going to overload these operators as nonmember functions.
Let's overload the stream insertion operator first.
You can see that this is a nonmember function named operator insertion operator that has two arguments.
The first argument is an output stream object by reference.
This is type stood O stream.
The second parameter is a reference to the my string object whose data we want to insert in the output
stream.
Notice that the reference is constant.
Also notice that the function returns an output stream reference.
This is important because we want to be able to change insertions as we normally do.
It's important that we use stream references and we don't copy the stream.
Then comes the easy part.
But whatever data you like in whatever form it you like on the output stream as usual if this function
has been declared as a friend function of the mystery class then you have access to all the private
data members.
Otherwise you have to use the public getters to get the information you need.
And finally the last step is to return the output stream reference.
That's it.
As you can see it's very simple and very useful too.
Now let's see how we can overload the stream extraction operator.
Let's start by looking at the function signature the name of the function is operator extraction operator.
The function has two parameters.
The first is a reference to an input stream whose type is I stream.
And the second is a reference to the object we want to extract data into.
Notice that since we're going to modify this object we don't want it to be a contest.
So depending on the data we want to read we can get the data from the input stream and either store
it locally or store it directly in the object.
In this case we allocate a large array of characters that will hold the data.
We went to construct a string object.
Then we simply create a temporary my string object and assign it back to the object that was passed
in.
This assumes we have copy or move overloaded assignment operators and they're implemented correctly
since we have a raw pointer.
Finally we returned the stream reference so that we can change a.
We can do all sorts of error checking and setting and getting the state of the input stream.
So we have control of the data we're extracting as well as overrunning the size of the buffer we created.
Now let's head over to the idea and implement these two operators in my string class.
Ok so I'm back in the IDM in the section 14 workspace in the my string Dasch insertion Dasch extraction
project and what I've got here is I've got the mystery class again and I've got rid of all the operators
that we've overloaded previously just so it's a barebones class again.
And and the reason I did this is to make this sort of bit more readable.
And what we want to do here is overload the insertion and extraction operator so we can use this these
objects with streams really easily.
So here's a sample main that's going to test this.
And you can see here I'm creating Larry and Moe as my strings and Curly is an empty string right now
and I'm outputting into the third Stooges first name.
I'm reading from from standard in this case Cien into Kerley.
So we're overloading the operator right there to work with my string object then I'm displaying the
three stooges are Larry Moe and Curly again.
We're using the insertion operator here that we're going to overload and then we're going to grab all
three of the Stooges names so we say into the three stooges names separated by space ambil type in whatever
we like.
There'll be storage of Larry Moe and Curly in them or display them out again.
OK.
So pretty simple.
And you can see this main driver here looks nice.
Now we don't have all those dot display methods that we had before.
Cool.
So let's go to my string header file and let's get started here.
First we want to do is I'm going to implement these as friend functions so the class is going to declare
them as friends.
So why don't we do that first.
And what we can do here is just simply say friend and provide the prototype so we we're returning a
stood O stream reference will do the insertion operator first.
So we've got to reference the operator overloading is the insertion operator and it's a binary operator
so we've got two parameters here.
The first one is a pseudo stream and we can call this anything we like we can call it a lesser out typically
does the names that are used.
And we've got my string of Konst my string reference and we'll just call that right hand side.
We'll stick to that naming convention.
So that takes care of that prototype and now we'll do the extraction operator.
So same idea friend in this case we're returning an input stream by reference again and the operator
is operator and we be doing the extraction operator.
And again we've got two parameters.
The first one is the input stream reference.
We'll just call that in and we've got a string object also by reference called at right hand side.
Notice how this one is not Konst because I do want to modify that object based on what I'm reading in
from the input stream.
OK so that's it.
Those who are to function prototypes.
And now what we can do is we can go to the implementation file on my strengths GPP file and will actually
write these.
I'm going to put them all the way on the bottom here that we have got a lot of room to work.
So let's say that this is the overloaded insertion operator that one first.
All right.
So same type of function prototype Ramstad stream reference the operator overloading is the insertion
operator and we've got the same two parameters that we had before that got an O stream reference
and we called it O S I believe.
Yes we did and a concert.
My string class by reference right hand side.
There we go.
OK.
So now this is probably one of the simplest methods to implement.
All we're doing is we're putting on OS are Remember this is a friend so we can simply say all right
hand sides as TR That's it.
If it wasn't a friend we could use the get c r method and then we're going to return that output stream.
That's it.
Pretty straightforward.
Now let's overload our extraction operator
and we'll do the prototype again here.
So it's a good ice cream reference.
The operator overloading is the extraction operator and we also have two parameters right the first
one is a stood stream reference and we'll just call that in and we've got the my string ref right hand
side.
Again this one can't be conc because we're going to read into it or change it.
That's it.
So now we're going to get a string from the input stream.
We need to store that somewhere.
So let's create a pretty big size buffer here and we'll do this dynamically on the heap.
We'll just store thousand characters that should give us plenty of room.
We could certainly do this in a different way so that we don't overrun this buffer and just do it like
this because it's a simple example to understand.
Now we get whatever's in the input stream and we started buffer.
Right now we've got the buffer it's got the data that we want.
And what we want to do is we want to update this right hand side objects string based on this data.
Right.
So there's a lot of ways to do this.
One of the simplest ways to do it is just to say are a chess equals my string and initialize it with
buff.
Now depending on whether you've got copy assignment or move assignment that's what's going to happen
here we've got both.
So this is going to use move assignment which is super efficient.
We're just going to steal that pointer when we're done.
We make sure that we delete this temporary stores that we created and buff and we return the input stream.
Remember this is going to return it by reference and that's it we should be done that's run this and
see if we have any typos.
And we do I spelled operator incorrectly I believe.
Sure did.
I'll fix that real quick.
See if there's any other errors down here.
I think correlated to that same error.
So let's run this.
And here we go into this the third Stooges first Nabl the third Stooges curly notice we use the move
assignment which is what we expected that move assignment happened when I copied that object out.
Now it says into the three stooges names separated by a space Wallaces give them different names.
Let's say it's Frank Jim and Joe.
So you can see three move assignments there and says the three stooges are frank Jim and Joe.
So there you go.
We've overloaded the insertion and extraction operators to work with our classes.
And it really feels like it's part of the type system now.
All right.
So that's it for this section the next part is the challenge exercise.
So I'll see you there.